src/test/java/lesson15/xpathExpressionChecks.md, before:

# Sign In (Login) - [Link](http://training.skillo-bg.com:4200/users/login)

**Mihail Mihaylov**

## Description and XPath Expressions

### Form Field Locators:
| **Description** | **Expression** | **Result** |
|-----------------|----------------|------------|
| Finding all user input fields - formcontrolname attribute | `//input[@formcontrolname]` | N/A |
| Finding specific user input fields - usernameOrEmail | `//input[@formcontrolname="usernameOrEmail"]` | `<input _ngcontent-doh-c8="" class="form-control mb-4 ng-pristine ng-invalid ng-touched" formcontrolname="usernameOrEmail" id="defaultLoginFormUsername" name="usernameOrEmail" placeholder="Username or email" type="text">` |
| Finding specific user input fields - defaultLoginFormPassword | `//input[@formcontrolname="password"]` | `<input _ngcontent-doh-c8="" class="form-control mb-4 ng-untouched ng-pristine ng-invalid" formcontrolname="password" id="defaultLoginFormPassword" name="password" placeholder="Password" type="password">` |
| Finding specific user input fields - rememberMe | `//input[@formcontrolname="rememberMe"]` | `<input _ngcontent-doh-c8="" class="remember-me-button ng-untouched ng-pristine ng-valid" formcontrolname="rememberMe" type="checkbox">` |

### UI Consistency Check:
| **Description** | **Expression** | **Result** |
|-----------------|----------------|------------|
| Finding all clickable elements i.e. buttons and hyperlinks | `//button \| //a` | N/A |
| Finding specific element based on `<button>` tag and the containing word "Sign" | `//button[contains(text(), "Sign")]` | `<button _ngcontent-doh-c8="" block="true" class="my-4 btn btn-primary" id="sign-in-button" type="submit">Sign in</button>` |

### User Feedback Messages:
| **Description** | **Expression** | **Result** |
|-----------------|----------------|------------|
| Finding results using the role attribute | `//div[@role]` | N/A |
| Finding results using the role attribute and specific user feedback | `//div[@role="alertdialog"]` | `<div aria-live="polite" role="alertdialog" class="toast-message ng-star-inserted" aria-label="Successful login!" style=""> Successful login! </div>`<br>`<div aria-live="polite" role="alertdialog" class="toast-message ng-star-inserted" aria-label="Successful logout!" style=""> Successful logout! </div>`<br>`<div aria-live="polite" role="alertdialog" class="toast-message ng-star-inserted" aria-label="User not found" style=""> User not found </div>`<br>`<div aria-live="polite" role="alertdialog" class="toast-message ng-star-inserted" aria-label="UsernameOrEmail cannot be empty" style=""> UsernameOrEmail cannot be empty </div>`<br>`<div aria-live="polite" role="alertdialog" class="toast-message ng-star-inserted" aria-label="Password cannot be empty" style=""> Password cannot be empty </div>` |

Commit message:

added table for navigation bar locators

src/test/java/lesson15/xpathExpressionChecks.md, after:

# Sign In (Login) - [Link](http://training.skillo-bg.com:4200/users/login)

**Mihail Mihaylov**

## Description and XPath Expressions

### Navigation Bar Locators:
| **Description**                                                                                             | **Expression** | **Result** |
|-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|----------------|------------|
| Finding all clickable elements in the navigation bar with `<a>` tag                                         | `//nav//a` | `<a _ngcontent-olu-c1="" class="navbar-brand"><img _ngcontent-olu-c1="" alt="homeIcon" id="homeIcon" src="../../../assets/Iskillo-logo.png" tabindex="0"></a>`<br>`<a _ngcontent-olu-c1="" class="nav-link" id="nav-link-home" href="/posts/all">Home</a>`<br>`<a _ngcontent-olu-c1="" class="nav-link" id="nav-link-login" href="/users/login">Login</a>` |
| Finding all clickable elements in the navigation bar with `<a>` tag by descending to a specific class `nav` | `//a[contains(@class, "nav")]` | N/A |
| Finding all clickable elements in the navigation menu with `<a>` or `<button>` tags and class `nav`         | `//a[contains(@class, "nav")] \| //button[contains(@class, "nav")]` | `<a _ngcontent-olu-c1="" class="navbar-brand"><img _ngcontent-olu-c1="" alt="homeIcon" id="homeIcon" src="../../../assets/Iskillo-logo.png" tabindex="0"></a>`<br><br>`<button _ngcontent-olu-c1="" class="navbar-toggler" type="button"><span _ngcontent-olu-c1="" class="navbar-toggler-icon"></span></button>`<br><br>`<a _ngcontent-olu-c1="" class="nav-link" id="nav-link-home" href="/posts/all">Home</a>`<br>`<a _ngcontent-olu-c1="" class="nav-link" id="nav-link-login" href="/users/login">Login</a>` |
| **Alternate version of the above using Axes**                                                               | `//*[self::a or self::button][contains(@class, "nav")]` | *See above* |
| Finding all elements from `<a>` tag with `class="navbar-brand"`                                             | `//a[@class="navbar-brand"]` | `<a _ngcontent-olu-c1="" class="navbar-brand"><img _ngcontent-olu-c1="" alt="homeIcon" id="homeIcon" src="../../../assets/Iskillo-logo.png" tabindex="0"></a>` |
| Finding all elements from `<a>` tag with `class="nav-link"`                                                 | `//a[@class="nav-link"]` | `<a _ngcontent-olu-c1="" class="nav-link" id="nav-link-login" href="/users/login">Login</a>`<br>`<a _ngcontent-olu-c1="" class="nav-link" id="nav-link-home" href="/posts/all">Home</a>` |
| Finding a specific element by ID - `homeIcon`                                                               | `//*[@id="homeIcon"]` | `<img _ngcontent-olu-c1="" alt="homeIcon" id="homeIcon" src="../../../assets/Iskillo-logo.png" tabindex="0">` |
| Finding a specific element by ID - `nav-link-home`                                                          | `//*[@id="nav-link-home"]` | `<a _ngcontent-olu-c1="" class="nav-link" id="nav-link-home" href="/posts/all">Home</a>` |
| Finding a specific element by ID - `nav-link-login`                                                         | `//*[@id="nav-link-login"]` | `<a _ngcontent-olu-c1="" class="nav-link" id="nav-link-login" href="/users/login">Login</a>` |

### Form Field Locators:
| **Description** | **Expression** | **Result** |
|-----------------|----------------|------------|
| Finding all user input fields - formcontrolname attribute | `//input[@formcontrolname]` | N/A |
| Finding specific user input fields - usernameOrEmail | `//input[@formcontrolname="usernameOrEmail"]` | `<input _ngcontent-doh-c8="" class="form-control mb-4 ng-pristine ng-invalid ng-touched" formcontrolname="usernameOrEmail" id="defaultLoginFormUsername" name="usernameOrEmail" placeholder="Username or email" type="text">` |
| Finding specific user input fields - defaultLoginFormPassword | `//input[@formcontrolname="password"]` | `<input _ngcontent-doh-c8="" class="form-control mb-4 ng-untouched ng-pristine ng-invalid" formcontrolname="password" id="defaultLoginFormPassword" name="password" placeholder="Password" type="password">` |
| Finding specific user input fields - rememberMe | `//input[@formcontrolname="rememberMe"]` | `<input _ngcontent-doh-c8="" class="remember-me-button ng-untouched ng-pristine ng-valid" formcontrolname="rememberMe" type="checkbox">` |

### UI Consistency Check:
| **Description** | **Expression** | **Result** |
|-----------------|----------------|------------|
| Finding all clickable elements i.e. buttons and hyperlinks | `//button \| //a` | N/A |
| Finding specific element based on `<button>` tag and the containing word "Sign" | `//button[contains(text(), "Sign")]` | `<button _ngcontent-doh-c8="" block="true" class="my-4 btn btn-primary" id="sign-in-button" type="submit">Sign in</button>` |

### User Feedback Messages:
| **Description** | **Expression** | **Result** |
|-----------------|----------------|------------|
| Finding results using the role attribute | `//div[@role]` | N/A |
| Finding results using the role attribute and specific user feedback | `//div[@role="alertdialog"]` | `<div aria-live="polite" role="alertdialog" class="toast-message ng-star-inserted" aria-label="Successful login!" style=""> Successful login! </div>`<br>`<div aria-live="polite" role="alertdialog" class="toast-message ng-star-inserted" aria-label="Successful logout!" style=""> Successful logout! </div>`<br>`<div aria-live="polite" role="alertdialog" class="toast-message ng-star-inserted" aria-label="User not found" style=""> User not found </div>`<br>`<div aria-live="polite" role="alertdialog" class="toast-message ng-star-inserted" aria-label="UsernameOrEmail cannot be empty" style=""> UsernameOrEmail cannot be empty </div>`<br>`<div aria-live="polite" role="alertdialog" class="toast-message ng-star-inserted" aria-label="Password cannot be empty" style=""> Password cannot be empty </div>` |
